# goAutomateProject
This project explores the potenital for automating Go programs by revisiting Testing Go for Statistics project.

# Automated Code Generation
The third party Jennifer package was used to generate a unit test for a LinearRegresion function seen in the `Testing Go for Stats` program in https://github.com/jremsza/AnscombeProject/tree/main/Go. The code to build the unit test is located in the `autoGen` directory and is contained in the `main.go` file. The `linReg_test.go` file, also located in `autoGen` and is the output of the autogenerated unit test code.

### Summary to Management

The code output creates a unit test that attempts to test that the CalculateLinearRegression function is working correctly. It does this by checking that the function returns the expected results for a set of predefined test cases. The process of using an autogenerator to build Go code has a steep learning curve and is not intuitive. The Github repo https://github.com/dave/jennifer was helpful with the coding task but the time spent coding a code generator would have been better spent coding the actual unit test. If the unit test needed is deemed to be used very frequently then the autogenerator may be useful, but not enough to replace an engineer. 

# AI Assisted Programming

Inside the `copilot` directory is where you will find the AI assisted code that was generated from the `Testing Go for Stats` main project file and is titled `statsRegen.go`. The code was taken from the stats project repository and fed into Github Copilot. The AI assistant was asked to improve upon the current code. The assistant gave a responce in text form and then gave code output with the iprovments. The go file is the code with AI suggested improvements and text file that contains the chat history from the assistant. The suggestions for improvment included error handling, code duplication, renaming variables and adding extra code comments for clearity. The https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/copilot/overview webpage was useful in this coding appraoch. The tips found there were useful in navigating the AI assistant to the questions that were more targeted to the goal.

### Summary to Managment

This appraoch proved plausable for the targeted goals. The AI assistant was prompt, concise, and added value to the program. However, engineers are still necessary to build the code and oversee program execution. The AI assistant will no doubt add value with error reduction and productivity for the engineers.

# AI Generated Code

ChatGPT 3.5 https://chat.openai.com/chat was used for the production of the program found in `gptStats.go`. A text file is also contained in the same directory with a chat history of the program build. The AI chatbot was able to build a program from the provided prompt, although it was not a working program. Errors are found in varible declaration blocks, were err := regression.Solve, predicted.Mul, residuals.Sub, are undefined. Also the chatbot provided an incomplete dataset to work with. The AI chatbot was asked initally to build a Go program that performs linear regression on the Anscombe Quartet dataset and the program should yield at minimum estimated linear regression coefficients. Initially the program generated a generic script that was then instructed to fill in with specfic details. Upon more questions, the chatbot produced a full program and suggested the use of a few packages for the task and gonum/mat package was selected by the user. This package was different then the original package used for the project which was montanaflynn/stats. I then asked the chatbot if it can improve upon my origial stats program. The chat history is add to the bottom of the gpt-chat.txt file and the code suggestion is shown in the `goStats2.go` file. The chatbot had great suggestions to simplify my code and add a few extra statistical calculations like residuals and standard error. However, when it gave me the code to use it was incorrect because it assumed the stats package I used, `montanaflyn/stats`, had those functions to perform the calculations. That package does not have those functions, giving errors and the program was not able to compile.

### Summary to Managment

The final go program is complete but full of errors and will not complie. The code that was provided is a good starting point but not able to be a stand alone program without humans. The same is true for the revised original stats program. The chatbot provided good suggestion but it had errors that the engineer would still have to be present to fix. This option may be plauseable with more targeted prompts for short scripts but cannot replace an engineer outright. Much like the AI-assitant, the chatbot can be a good compainion to the engineer. However, the time spent asking questions for misguided program production may be better spent just writting the program by a human. 

# Conclusion

The recomendation is to use Github Copilot or Chat GPT as an AI assited pair programmer with the engineering team. None of these technologies are enough in their current form to outright remove the human from the production of software. However, if the AI assisted approach is proving to be an increase of engineer productivity, a reduction in head count may be achievable.

### Resources Used
https://github.com/dave/jennifer

https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/copilot/overview